.TH 1FPIRATE 5 "June 2025" "1fpirate format" "File Formats"

.SH NAME
1fpirate \- a simple, lossless 1-bit image format based on farbfeld

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 1fpirate

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B 1fpirate
format is a minimal, uncompressed 1-bit per pixel raster image format. It is structurally similar to
.BR farbfeld (5),
but uses a single bit to represent each pixel. It is designed for scanned documents, manga, pixel art, and monochrome graphics.

All integers are stored in big-endian byte order.

.SH FILE FORMAT
A
.B 1fpirate
file consists of:

.TP
.B Bytes 0-7
The ASCII string
.BR "1fpirate"
(this is the magic number).

.TP
.B Bytes 8-11
Image width in pixels (unsigned 32-bit integer, big-endian)

.TP
.B Bytes 12-15
Image height in pixels (unsigned 32-bit integer, big-endian)

.TP
.B Bytes 16...
Image pixel data, stored as 1 bit per pixel, left-to-right, top-to-bottom.
Each row is padded to the next byte boundary.

Each bit represents one pixel:
.IP
0 = white, 1 = black

Bits are packed MSB first (bit 7 is leftmost pixel of the byte).

.SH EXAMPLES
Write a 1fpirate file manually for a 16x16 checkerboard:
.IP
Use 16 (width) and 16 (height), and write 32 bytes of pattern data (16 rows × 2 bytes/row).

.IP
To decode:
.RS
.br
Read the magic, dimensions, and unpack the bits row-wise.
.br
Convert each bit to either black (1) or white (0).
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR farbfeld (5),
.BR ffpirate (1),
.BR 1fpirate (1)

.SH AUTHORS
Tim Cooper and contributors.

.SH BUGS
The format does not support metadata or alpha transparency.
