.TH FFPIRATEVIEW 1 "May 2025" "ffpirateview" "Farbfeld Image Viewer"

.SH NAME
ffpirateview \- simple viewer for farbfeld (.ff), and 1fpirate image files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ffpirate
[\fIFF_FILE\fR]

.B zviewer.sh
\fIFF_FILE\fR]

.B gimp_open.sh
\fIFF_FILE\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ffpirate
is a lightweight SDL2-based image viewer designed to display
uncompressed or decompressed Farbfeld image files. It can also
directly view 1fpirate image files. It supports basic interaction and
image manipulation.  It also includes a helper script, "zviewer.sh"
which allows you to open a file compressed in a number of different
formats.  The formats for zviewer.sh , are bzip2 (ff.bz2, ffbz), lzip
(ff.lz, ffz), (ff.xz, ffxz).  It can also view jpeg, png, and webp by
converting them to farbfeld before viewing.  This conversion by
zviewer relies on external farbfeld tools, 2ff (jpg2ff, png2ff).

gimp_open.sh is a helper script to allow you to open ff files, (and
the above compressed instances) in gimp without the plugin.  It does
this by using ff2png from the farbfeld tools, to convert it go a png,
then opens it in gimp.  This not ideal, but until the gimp-farbfeld
plugin is updated, this will suffice.

.SH USAGE
To launch:
.IP
.B ffpirate image.ff, or cat image.ff | ffpirate

.SH FEATURES

.TP
.B Arrow keys
Pan the image in the corresponding direction.

.TP
.B Mouse drag
Also pans the image.

.TP
.B f
Toggle fullscreen (windowed) mode.

.TP
.B r
Rotate image 90 degrees clockwise.

.TP
.B h
Flip image horizontally.

.TP
.B v
Flip image vertically.

.TP
.B s
Save current image to a new (farbfeld) file. The filename will be the
original filename with \fB"new.ff"\fR appended.  1fpirate files will also be saved as farbfeld, so you will need to reconvert them.  For specific gui saving of 1fpirate, consider using the even lighter "1fpirate" program.

.TP
.B q / Esc
Quit the viewer.

.SH NOTES
Compressed farbfeld files such as \fB.ffz\fR, \fB.ff.lz\fR, \fB.ffbz\fR, or \fB.ff.xz\fR
should be launched via the \fBzviewer.sh\fR script, which will decompress and call
ffpirateview as needed.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by a pirate who loves colors.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR convert (1),
.BR farbfeld (5),
.BR zviewer.sh (1)
